# Salesforce study plan and Interview Preparation
In this we will learn about salesforce and will look into some of the interview questions and answers with Videos

## What is Salesforc?
Salesforce is a cloud-based software company that provides businesses with tools that help them find more prospects, close more deals, and provide a higher level of service to their customers.
Salesforce is a popular CRM tool for support, sales, and marketing teams worldwide. 
Salesforce services allow businesses to use cloud technology to better connect with partners, customers, and potential customers. Using the Salesforce CRM, companies can track customer activity, market to customers, and many more services. 


## Salesforce Architecture
This tutorial will now briefly walk you through the Salesforce architecture. Here, you will be acquainted with the different layers of the Salesforce architecture individually.

Multi-tenant: Salesforce stores data in a single database schema. There can be a single instance of a software server with multiple tenants. Speaking about a multi-tenant architecture, there is a single shared application service to several clients. This makes it cost-effective. On the contrary, in a single-tenant, the development and maintenance cost must be entirely owned by one client. Hence the multi-tenant architecture is a boon.
Metadata: Salesforce uses a metadata-driven development model. This allows developers to only focus on building the application. This metadata-driven platform makes customization and scaling up easy.
API: Salesforce provides a powerful source of APIs. This helps in developing and customizing the Salesforce1 Mobile App. Every feature of the Salesforce design has been planned and implemented precisely. 

## Salesforce Services
Moving on, you will explore the Services offered by Salesforce:

SAAS (Software As A Service): Here, you can directly obtain the built-in software and make use of it. 
PAAS (Platform As A Service): PAAS offers you the framework and platform to build your websites and apps.
IAAS (Infrastructure As A Service): IAAS plays a vital role in Salesforce development, although not very widely used.

## Salesforce Cloud Services
Sales Cloud: It is one of the most essential and popular products of Salesforce. It is a CRM platform that allows you to manage your company's sales, marketing, and customer support aspects. Sales Cloud gives you the status of the lead that will be helpful for sales executives. 
Marketing Cloud: Marketing is crucial when it comes to running a business. Marketing cloud lets you run campaigns, manage emails, messages, social media, content management, data analytics, etc., with the help of a tracking system. 
Analytics Cloud: This enables users to create a highly visually appealing dashboard of the available data. By doing so, you can get an in-depth understanding and analyze the trends, business, and more. 
IoT Cloud: Salesforce IoT cloud is used when your company needs to handle the Internet of Things (IoT) data. This platform can take vast volumes of data generated by various IoT devices; following this, you get real-time responses.
Salesforce App Cloud: You can use this service to develop custom apps that will run on the Salesforce platform. 
Salesforce Service Cloud: Salesforce also helps you serve your customers. This is a service platform for your organization’s support team. It provides features like case tracking and social networking plug-in.

## Benefits of Salesforce 
1. Better Time Management 
Time management is a huge benefit of Salesforce and one of the best ways to allow a business to grow and thrive. Thanks to comprehensive customer information and useful planning resources, you have everything you need in one place. No more time wasted searching through logs and files for important info. 

With so much pertinent customer data, you can easily prioritize work for (and with) your clients by streamlining the sales funnel so that leads are quickly transformed into customers. 

Salesforce also has a calendar feature that makes it easy to plan projects, meetings, phone calls, and more in one place. You’ll know what’s coming up and when. 

2. Ultimate Accessibility 
Since Salesforce is cloud software, it’s accessible anywhere and everywhere you have access to the Internet. Whether you use your desktop, laptop, or smartphone, Salesforce can be reached thanks to its app. This is important because many business owners and team members travel frequently, be it nationally, internationally, or even between cities. 

Being able to reach your CRM tool through the protected cloud no matter where you are makes it easier to access important files and stay updated on clients. Sensitive information is more secure than it would be in a file cabinet or on a local server. 

3. Increased Revenue 
Without Salesforce, running a business in today’s world can cost you money. On any given day, your team might produce a ton of data that has to be stored. Without Salesforce, you’re most likely sorting through this data manually, and this is more time spent on administrative work as opposed to building customer relationships. 

When your time is tied up, it means you have less time to improve business, make connections, and grow profits. Since the tool takes over these administrative duties and more, you’ll have more time to devote to the business, which means more money in the long run.

4. Greater Customer Satisfaction
Similar to increased revenue, it’s safe to assume customers are more satisfied when they interact with a business that knows their needs and the state of their relationship with you (thanks to your CRM tool). Spend less time on administrative duties and you’ll have more time to spend catering to your customers through a common platform. 

Thanks to a highly efficient management system, you can serve your customers better by having quicker access to their information, accounts, purchase history, and preferences. 

This Salesforce benefit not only improves your relationship with your customers – it sets you up for new customers too. When your current customers are happy with you, they’re more likely to be an ambassador for you and tell their friends. 

5. Simple Account Planning 
Salesforce makes it simple to create plans for accounts. With all the customer information you need readily accessible, you’ll have an easier time placing that info into the correct accounts, and then making plans for those accounts for optimal results for the customer. 

Customers get products or services perfectly tailored to their needs, you stay organized, and you adjust your time effectively for each client. As these accounts are created, stronger connections are made with your clients by best meeting their needs, solving their problems, and keeping track of trends.

6. Trusted Reporting
With so much data pouring into your business, it’s easy to become lost. Salesforce keeps pertinent data organized and it helps you make sense of new data thanks to trustworthy reporting. 

Keep track of all the data your business collects from social media, website analytics, app information, business software, and more. Reporting takes this mountain of information and sorts it, analyzes it, and makes it actionable. With the accuracy of Salesforce tech, you know the numbers are right and the readings can be trusted. 

7. Improved Team Collaboration 
Lastly, team collaboration is a major benefit of Salesforce. The software allows you to connect and communicate with team members from anywhere thanks to the “Chatter” feature. This lets you connect with individual team members or full groups and chat about everything from your clients and their information to other work-related topics such as territory and product/service details. 

When the team is on the same page, your business is more cohesive and operates more efficiently so that deadlines are met and sales are finalized.


